<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="C" xml:lang="C">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch005.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="acknowledgements" class="level1">
<h1>Acknowledgements</h1>
<p>Writing this book proved more challenging than I expected, and I am deeply thankful to those who made it possible.</p>
<p>To my wife Michelle, thank you for your constant support.</p>
<p>To William Schmitz, I could never have finished this book without you. You served as researcher, editor, copywriter, publisher, and portrait artist, creating every drawing in it. You also designed the cover and contributed in countless other ways. I am forever thankful for everything you did to bring this project to life.</p>
<p>To Quin Leach, thank you for conducting the original interviews that shaped the case studies and for providing valuable early feedback and research when the book was still in its initial stages.</p>
<p>To Nathan Grimm, your feedback and contributions on technical topics like email deliverability, SMS permissions, and other complex areas enhanced the work at every stage.</p>
<p>To Frank Larnerd, I appreciate your diagrams and for sharing your expertise in social media, content publishing, and the operation of a real estate CRM. Your perspective added valuable depth to the book.</p>
<p>I am grateful to the entire RealtyJuggler team and your decades of experience in real estate CRMs. I draw upon the knowledge from fielding countless sales and support calls over the past 20 years.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
