<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="C" xml:lang="C">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch017.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="about-the-author" class="level1">
<h1>About the Author</h1>
<p>Scott Schmitz is a leading expert in real estate technology, specifically real estate CRM systems. He is the creator of the real estate CRM, RealtyJuggler. With over 20 years of experience in the real estate technology industry, Scott has worked with over thousands of agents to improve their business systems and maximize income through real estate technology.</p>
<p>Scott has written two books that provide a comprehensive, repeatable system for agents to maximize their use of a real estate CRM. The first book, <em>Real Estate CRM</em> Secrets (the book you are reading now), focuses on the fundamental systems a new agent needs to get organized, establish consistent habits, and grow their business. The second book, <em>Real Estate CRM Mastery</em>, is for experienced agents who have mastered these essentials and are ready to expand their production by focusing on advanced strategies through automation, teams, and networking.</p>
<p>Scott currently lives in Fort Collins, Colorado, with his wife Michelle. Scott received an MBA from The George Washington University and a Computer Engineering degree from the University of Michigan.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
